Who am I and why am I talking to you about broom? I interned at RStudio over the last
summer and worked on the broom package and have since taken over maintaining it. So if
there's any bugs, send them to me and I will try and fix them. And also the person who
originally wrote broom is at RStudio conference. It's David Robinson. So give him a big shout
out if you use broom at some point. Um, but I'm going to talk to you about what I'm calling
the model representation problem and how broom kind of alleviates that to some degree. If
you want to follow along with the slides, these are available online and you can download
them. Okay. So anyway, what is the model representation problem? So if you have spent some time in
a stat class or maybe even reading some tutorials online, uh, you will probably see things like
this somewhere. Here I've said, okay, there's this YI and I'm using this little tilde, which
means that this Y is a random variable and it has a normal distribution. And so you can
write this down. And if you've seen this before, you probably know what it means. And similarly,
you can kind of like pick one normal distribution. We have standard notation for that. And
when we have like a way to kind of represent factors of parameters and you can write down
estimates. So in my mind, there's like these kind of three key objects. We have like
models and then we have like individual fits for models and we have estimators, which I don't
want to get into too much, but you can write these things down in ways that other people
understand. So that's the, the kind of takeaway is that when you think of these things in
terms of math, we have shared notation and community standards for how we write these
things down. Yeah. So, uh, but in, in code, that's not the case quite as much as one would
hope. Um, and so it's just a quick example. So one thing that you might imagine they might
want to do is if you have like some classification model, you might want to get a class
probabilities for that model. Okay. But, uh, that's kind of hard to do sometimes. So most of
the time you can get class probabilities, but the question is how do you get class
probabilities? So what I have here is, uh, some example that I have stolen from Max, but
you have these different, uh, objects or models that you'd like to predict from. And if you
want to get class probabilities, there's all of these different kind of interfaces, right? So
it's not a question of whether or not you can do what you'd like to do. It's really a
question of cognitive load. I don't want to have to remember all the different type
arguments when I want to get class probabilities. Really. I just like to sit down and say,
remember one thing and always get what I want. Okay. So what's happening is there's this
extra friction that takes time away from being productive towards your end goal, which is
really just like get the class probabilities and then get done with your job, right? Okay. So
this is kind of what I'm calling the model representation problem is like we don't have a
standard way to represent these things. Okay. And Broom is here to help. So Broom is, uh, a
package written by David Robinson and there's these kind of three key ideas. The idea is
that, uh, we can take these fits by fit. What I mean is, um, you have some model and you
like train a model and you give me a trained model back. Okay. And we're going to say
that there's kind of like three key components in this like Broom philosophy and we're
going to, all of these components are going to be tidy tibbles. And the reason I'm going to be
tidy tibbles is because we know how to manipulate tibbles and so we can use tools that we
already know and there isn't any kind of additional cognitive load in working with those
things. So the first type of information about a fit is going to be like the components or
the parameters. So if you have a linear regression model, you could think about the
regression coefficients. So we're going to have a table that's going to have all the
information about the regression coefficients. Okay. And, uh, there's a S3 generic that
will provide that to us. So that'll be tidy and I'll show some examples of how this works in
just a moment. Okay. The second generic is glance. So glance is going to always return a
tibble with one row and the columns are going to be different goodness of fit measures. So
for example, this could be things like R squared or log likelihood or BIC or whatever kind
of fancy version of, you know, information criteria that a model returns. Um, but it's a
one row summary of the entire model. And then finally there's going to be this third
generic that's augment. And what augment does is it says, well, you have this training
data set and each one of the rows in this training data set influenced the final model in
some way. So any of that information about how it influenced the final model is going to
show up in augment. Or if you have new data, you can also use it to get predictions on new
data in a kind of nice way. Okay. So we'll work through a kind of simple example here
first. So, uh, suppose we have some data we can simulate from a normal distribution here
and then we can get a fit where now this normal fit object here represents the maximum
likelihood estimator of the parameters of this model. Okay. So the question is like, if we
didn't do anything, like what did this thing look like? And if we look at this normal fit
object, what we get is a list and I've cut off some of it, but we have these things in here.
So there's this, um, we have our estimates, the maximum likelihood estimates themselves, and
then we have their standard deviations and the covariance and the log likelihood of this
model. Okay. So this is like actually a pretty nice object and you can work with it if you
choose to, but the big issue is that if you go to a different package, it could look really
different. Right? So as an example of something that's going to look really different,
actually not as an example, that we'll get there in just a second. Um, we're going to talk
about linear models first. Oh wow. Okay. I'm out of order, but here's what happens when we
want to tidy this thing up. Right? So we'd like to have a table that represents these
estimates. Right? So there's this normal fit and what we can do is if we call tidy on it,
broom is going to clean it up for us. Okay. So here we get is this table and there's three
columns and these column names are pretty much always going to be the same, which is going to
be really nice. So we're going to have this term column and that's going to tell us what
parameter we're actually working with. We're going to have the estimate that's going to tell
us the actual value that we've calculated that we think we should be using. And we'll get a
standard error, which is going to address our uncertainty, uncertainty in that parameter.
Okay. So I told you that there were two other generics that we can apply to these objects. So
another one is glance. So for kind of a simple normal model, we only get some simple
diagnostics. Here we see how many data we fit to the total log likelihood and then these
other kind of criteria. Uh, there isn't actually an augment defined in broom at the moment
for these univariate distributions, but you could think about these if you wanted to, like
you could probably define like a log likelihood contribution if you wanted to think about
that. Okay. So let's think about a slightly more involved model where this might start
becoming more clear, like how it'll be useful in practice. So if you want to follow along on
your computer, you can. This is, you only need these two lines. So we're going to create
this, um, OLS fit object, which is going to be OLS estimators for the linear model. Okay. And
uh, I can't actually print this out on a slide because this object is really big and
complicated, but it's interesting to look into yourself if you kind of want to, or if you just
want to be like intimidated by how crazy the internals are. So I still have no clue how it
works. Okay. So, but then when you tidy it, you get something that's a lot easier to work
with. You just get this table. Okay. So here we have the term again, the term is each one of
our linear regression coefficients and we have this estimate, but now there's some
additional information about linear models that we didn't have before. So we have these,
um, uh, statistics from T tests and associated P values. If you wanted, you could also get
confidence intervals. There is a argument to tidy that will give you those confidence
intervals. Uh, when you glance at this, you also get a lot of information. So some of the
metrics that you're going to get, you're going to get like R squared and adjusted R
squared here. Sigma is the error variance, which is going to give you some measure of how
uncertain predictions from this model are going to be and so on and so forth. And what
exactly you get out is going to depend on the particular model that you put in. But the, uh,
the column names are consistent. So if you want to like figure out how to get this
information from one model or another, you don't have to remember what the internals of
those two models look like. You can just tidy or glance them and then always just access
that one column that you care about. Okay. Finally, I told you that there was this third
generic augment. So if you call augment and you don't have any additional data, you can
pass data into augment. But if you don't pass any data, it's going to root around in the
model object and find the training data for your model. So in this case, what it's done is
it's found that I used three columns from the original MT cars data set, HP, MPG and
cylinder and it's going to put those into a data frame and then it's going to add
additional information about each one of these observations. So here each row is an
observation. You can see that there's a dot fitted column, which is going to be our
actual prediction from the model. There's a dot SE fit, which is the standard error of
that prediction and then so on and so forth. So for linear regression, there's a bunch of
additional measures that we can add in here. But there's, these are all kind of like
training data level summaries. Okay. So that's like the big picture of what Broom does
and now I'd like to show you how I end up using Broom in practice. So the first thing that I
do is I use it a lot when I want to do like a quick and dirty reporting tool. So if you are
familiar with the knitter cable function, it's fantastic. It takes a data frame and then no
matter kind of what you're outputting to, it just gives you like a nice table. And so if you
can get your model into a table, which is exactly what tidy is going to do most of the
time, you can report it really fast. So this is like my super quick and dirty. I don't want
to just like barf our output into a homework document or something like that. So I'll use
this kind of combination. The next thing that you can do is you can use Broom to compare
different models by using this glance generic on a list of models all at once. So what I've
done here is I've said, well let's put three different models in a list. I'm going to call
them fit one, fit two and fit three. And in this case I'm adding more predictors at each step.
Okay. And then I'm going to use this tool from the per package called map DF. And what that's
going to do is it's going to apply the glance generic to each one of these models and then
it's going to put them all into a data frame together. And I'm going to arrange it by the
AIC. So if I look at the result, now I have a summary for each one of my models. And in
this case it looks like AIC is the best model in term, that fit three is the best model in
terms of AIC. I think that you can also plot this immediately for a really nice visual model
comparison. Okay. By far my favorite use case for Broom is checking multiple linear
regression. So I told you that if you use augment, you're going to get the residuals. And one
of the things you might want to do when you're doing some sort of regression is you might
want to take the residuals and compare them to each of your predictors and look at these
partial residual plots. And if you're going to see any kind of systematic deviations there
that might indicate some sort of model misfit. So if I want to do a visual check for model
misfit, I have about ten lines of code here and it's going to produce the following plot. So
that's it. And now I can look at these residuals and see if there's any patterns here. So if I
kind of eyeball this, I wouldn't be too concerned in this case. But it's a nice way to do
quick and easy diagnostics. Okay. So finally I'm going to work through kind of a more
extended example. I don't actually have the time so if someone could let me know how much I
have left, that would be great. But I'm going to work through this kind of more extended
example which is where I think the real power of Broom comes in which is when you want to
work with multiple models at once. Okay. So suppose we have this data. This is the MT
cars data again. I'm sorry if you've seen this a hundred times. But if we want to think
about the miles per gallon and weight, we could say well let's use a model here but we don't
want to do a linear model. We could say this really looks like there's some sort of
inverse relationship. Let's do some sort of like nonlinearly squares. So we could say well
let's just use this model. So let's say there's like some inverse relationship with weight.
The particular model here is not particularly important. But we could say well let's use
this model and maybe we'd like to fit this a bajillion times on bootstrap data sets to see
what the uncertainty in these parameters K and B is. Okay. So to do this the first thing
that we're going to use is we're going to use the R sample package. And we're going to
create bootstrap data sets. In this case we're going to create a hundred bootstrap data
sets. And what we're going to get is we're going to get this tibble that has a bunch of
nested objects. So when you start looking at kind of these R sample stuff there, you
might wonder what's going on. So we have this split object. And so this split is going to
have two kind of data sets contained in it. It's going to have the bootstrap data set and
the held out data set. And then there's going to be this ID column. And so the idea is
that we're going to use mutate together with per map to add new list columns of models and
work with those new list columns of models. And a general strategy that works really well
in these kind of circumstances is you figure out how to do something on one resampled data
set. So what I've done here is there's a function in R that will let me fit a nonlinear least
squares and it's called NLS. And so NLS is going to need three arguments. I have to kind
of define the formula that I want to use. So in this case that's exactly the formula from
the slides a couple before. And I have to tell it the data I want to use. So in this case
there's that split object from my bootstraps data frame. And I'd like to use the analysis
function to get the training set out of there. And finally because it's a kind of different
model than usual, I have to give it some sort of initial parameters which don't really matter
here. So this is the helper function that's going to solve this problem for me on one data
set. So now I'd like to generalize this which I can just do with map. So now I take my
bootstrap data sets and I'm going to mutate map. So now I'm going to fit a bootstrap data
set on each one of these resampled data sets. And I'm going to do the second thing where
now I have each one of these fit models and I'm going to tidy each one of these fit models
here. So now what I've done is in this first row I have a data set. I have an ID that kind
of corresponds to which data set it is. And then I have an S3 object. That's my actual model
object which is living in this column. And then I'm going to have a nested table which has
my tidied coefficients. So at first glance this kind of structure can seem really
intimidating because you have all of these nested hierarchical structures. But this is kind
of where you want to think about. You want to end up here and then there's a magical function
from tidy R that's going to flatten this out into something that we can actually work with in
an intuitive way. And that's the unnest function. So in this case if I unnest on coefficient
info, I'm going to go back one slide really fast. So coefficient info is this list of
tables. If I unnest on coefficient info, now I have this flat data frame that I can work
with where I have for each one of my bootstrap data sets I have all the information that I
need about my coefficients. So now if I want to plot this to visualize uncertainty, this is
just a one liner or two liner in GG plot. Okay, five liner. But then you throw it in GG plot
too and you just can see this right away. So I haven't done a whole bunch of bootstraps
here but hopefully the idea is that the workflow is very convenient. Okay, there's kind of one
last use case that you can use here. So suppose we want to do the same thing but we would like
to visualize the uncertainty in our predictions. In that case what we're going to want to do
is work with the augmented data sets. So we're going to apply the same strategy. We already
have a table of fit models. We're going to map augment over those fit models and what we're
going to get again is going to be this nested table with a bunch of predictions and then we
can un-nest those nested predictions and GG plot them right away. And that looks like
this. So now you have a bunch of non-linear fits that you're visualizing all at once. Okay,
so that's what I use Broom most for personally. There's a bunch of documentation on how to
use Broom. We just released Broom 0.50 at kind of the end of the summer. So there's a bunch
of information on new releases and new tidiers that were supported there. You can also learn
how to implement these methods yourself. We have some standards that you can use so that
your Broom functions or your tidiers is what we call them will behave like other Broom
functions which is what you really want to do to decrease the cognitive load which is the goal
in the end, right? So there's a website with all this documentation and I'm also happy to
answer questions or help with pull requests or anything at any time. So I've got my contact
information up here as well. Thank you.
Cool. If you go to my Twitter, I should have just tweeted out. Okay.
So thanks, Alex. We have time for a couple questions.
Maybe stand up and wave at me if you do have one. Yeah, okay, back here.
Can you hear me? Can you hear me, anybody? Okay, here we are. So since you're bootstrapping
with a Tibble, is that making it extremely efficient time wise?
Okay, so there's two things you have to think about in terms of the efficiency for these
things. The first is like the data. Are you going to create a bunch of copies of the data?
And the answer is no. Max has implemented this in a way so you're not going to create
excessive copies of the data. You're going to have to create a little bit of ‑‑ so I think
the example is like if you bootstrap and you have 50 bootstrap data sets, you're going to have
like maybe three times as much storage space as originally. What you're really going to get
hit with in terms of inefficiency is going to be the models themselves. So most modeling
functions in R, they actually save the data that they were fit on and that gets big really
fast. So it really depends on how kind of clean the modeling package is. But that's
normally not at your mercy. So if you're running into kind of space issues, one kind of
standard thing you can do is you can define a helper function to fit the model, figure out
what you actually need from that and then try to throw away as much junk as possible and
kind of keep that like pared down object. I think we have time for one more question.
Hi. Great talk. Can you just in a few sentences say what it takes to implement new tidiers?
Yeah, normally it's about like five lines of tidyverse code in terms of like effort. So like
five lines of tidyverse code and effort. The biggest thing is making sure that you're
meeting the kind of conventions. So if you break with the convention, it doesn't actually do
any good for anybody. So there's a lot of documentation. I need to update that to some
extent. But this link that I have in the slides here should work you through everything you
need to do. So I would say maybe 15 minutes to read through that and hopefully 30 minutes or
less to create a custom one of your own. I think we can do one more quick question.
I have a love-hate relationship with the boot package. But one thing that I like about it is
that it's got support for computing different types of confidence intervals that have better
properties that you would like in them. So I was wondering if these tools have anything like
that implemented or if it's just kind of percentile confidence intervals and that sort of thing.
So I didn't actually show a confidence interval example. What I visualized up on the board was
the entire sampling distribution. So if you can, that's what my recommendation is, is to look
at the whole sampling distribution. But when you're working with our sample, it's kind of low
level infrastructure. So if you're going to do calculations across all of those coefficients
at once, you'll need to implement that method yourself. Max has a comment as well.
Oh, yeah, there's fancy stuff. There's like 632 coming. So there's fancy stuff coming. That will be really cool.